>Suppose that the probabilities are 0.2, 0.4, 0.3 and 0.1 that the number of wills filed on any day at Kusu Island will be 0, 1, 2, or 3. 
>(a) What is the probability of having at least 2 wills filed per day?
>(b) Find the expected number of wills filed per day.
>(c) Find the variance of the number of wills filed per day.

(a) $P(\text{at least 2 wills}) = P(\text{2 wills filled}) + P(\text{3 wills filled}) = 0.1 + 0.3 = 0.4$
(b) $$ \begin{align} 
E(X) &= (0* 0.2) + (1 * 0.4) + (2 * 0.3) + (3 * 0.1) \\ 
&= 1.3
\end{align}$$
(c) $$\begin{align}
Var(X) &= E(X^2) - E(X)^2 \\
&= 0^2(0.2) + 1^2(0.4) + 2^2(0.3) + 3^2(0.1) - (0.4)^2 \\ &
= 2.5 - 0.16 \\ &
= 2.34
\end{align}$$
>Given that f (x) = $k/2^x$, is a discrete probability function for a r.v. that can take on the values
x = 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4. Find k and tabulate the cumulative probability P(X≤ x).

$$
\begin{align}
f(x) &= \frac{k}{2^x} \\
&\text{Since f(x) is a probabilty mass function,} \\
\sum_{x=0}^{4} f(x) &= \frac{k}{2^0} + \frac{k}{2^1} + \frac{k}{2^2} + \frac{k}{2^3} + \frac{k}{2^4} \\
&= \frac{k}{1} + \frac{k}{2} + \frac{k}{4} + \frac{k}{8} + \frac{k}{16} \\
&= \frac{16k+8k+4k+2k+k}{16} \\
&= \frac{31k}{16} \\
\frac{31k}{16} &= 1 \\
k &= \frac{16}{31} \\
&\approx{0.516}
\end{align}
$$

| x                  | 0               | 1               | 2               | 3               | 4   |
| ------------------ | --------------- | --------------- | --------------- | --------------- | --- |
| $f(x)=P(X\leq{x})$ | $\frac{16}{31}$ | $\frac{24}{31}$ | $\frac{28}{31}$ | $\frac{30}{31}$ | $1$ |
>A biased die is rolled 50 times and the number of twos appeared is 10. If the die is rolled for
another 10 times, determine the following:
(a) the probability that we get a two exactly 3 times.
(b) the expected number of twos.
(c) the variance of the number of twos.

$$
\begin{align}
(a)\
P(X=3) &= {10 \choose 3} (0.20)^3(1-0.20)^7 \\
&\approx{0.20133} \\
(b) \
E(X) &= np \\
&= 10 * 0.2 \\
&= 2 \\
(c) \
Var(X) &= npq \\
&= 10 * 0.2 * 0.8 \\
&= 1.6
\end{align}
$$
>The number of calls coming per minute into a hotel reservation center is Poisson random
variable with mean 3.
(a) Find the probability that no calls come in a given 1minute period.
(b) Assume that the number of calls arriving in two different minutes are independent.
Find the probability that at least two calls will arrive in a given two minutes period.

$$
\begin{align}
P(X=x) &= \frac{e^{-\mu}\mu^x}{x!}\\
X &\sim Po(\mu=3) \\
(a) \
P(\text{no calls come in a 1 minute period}) &= \frac{e^{-3}3^0}{0!} \\
&= e^{-3} \\
(b) \
P(X=0) &=  \frac{e^{-3}3^0}{0!} = e^{-3} \\
P(X=1) &=  \frac{e^{-3}3^1}{1!} = 3e^{-3} \\
 1- (P(X=0)P(X=1) + P(X=1) P(X=0) + P(X=0)P(X=0)) &= 1 - e^{-3}(3e^{-3}) + e^{-3}(3e^{-3})  + e^{-3}(e^{-3}) \\
 &= 1 - 3e^{-6} + 3e^-6 + e^{-6} \\
 &= 1 - 7e^{-6} 
\end{align}
$$

>The probability that a student fails Subject A exam is 0.05. If the student failed the subject, he will have to re-take it the following semester. Let X be the number of times he attempted to pass the subject.
(a) Determine and name the probability distribution of X.
(b) Find the probability that a student will pass the subject with no more than 2 attempts.
(c) Find the average number of attempts to pass the subject.

(a) Geometric Distribution
(b) $$\begin{align}
P(X\leq2) &= P(X=1) + P(X=2) \\
&= (0.05)^{1-1}(0.95) + (0.05)^{2-1}(0.95) \\
&= 0.9975
\end{align}$$
(c) $$
\begin{align}
E(X) = \frac{1}{0.95} = 1.0526
\end{align}
$$